README.md, before:

# TAiL (Tron AI Library)

### Mainnet VERSIONS Deployed at TNSNE8FrYhXionoZDNjYTtUWtzc6zt2VSX & TBf9RVryATzFR5FsQv6Rg8JyAiEiGaiHPD
#### The Latest Version is not yet deployed on the main net. It can be found in the Solidity/Contracts folder
#### Latest Shasta Deployment - TRfMXBToAQAgbnKskpcu25ZkJyDd6cgDRT

#### Post Tron Accelerator Note

##### On the 10th of January I updated the smart contracts and front end. The Front End should now be able to show predictions of deployed models without issue. However this new functionality is not deployed on the main net, and will only work on the test net with the shasta contract found at TRfMXBToAQAgbnKskpcu25ZkJyDd6cgDRT

## What is TAiL
TAiL Is an AI Library and Deployer. The Library is used to train a neural network using python and user defined data. The Deployer is the front end of the dApp responsible for creating the network on the TVM and interacting with it. Iteraction being prediction on new data. The Frontend also allows Historic predictions to be reviewed. The models created with TAiL can be incorporated within other smart contract systems by referencing TAiL as an import, and interacting with the Predict function of the smart contract.

## Why is it needed

TAiL allows a fairly easy way of creating and deploying machine learning models to the TVM. This is something that is normally fairly complex. Machine learning on smart contract platforms is something thats rare, and many few have attempted it thusfar. The Library simplifies the process by allowing you to train a model using python, export it as a json file and them deploy it via a reactjs front end.



## How to use it

### Step 1 Train the model

To get started we need to import our modules (these can be found under the python directory). 

``` python
from FeedForwardNeuralNetwork import FeedForwardNeuralNetwork as FFN
from GeneticOptomiser import GeneticOptomiser as GN
import pandas as pd
import numpy as np
```

we then need to import our data and make it useable, this is a standard data science pipeline example using the Iris dataset which can be found at https://gist.github.com/curran/a08a1080b88344b0c8a7 :
``` python
#import test data
data = pd.read_csv("TestData/iris.csv")

#split into features and labels
y = data['label']
x = data.drop(['label'], axis=1)

x = np.asarray(x)

#convert string labels to integers
y = y.astype('category')
y = y.cat.codes
```

Finally we need to fit the TAiL machine learning model. This is done by initialising a model (GN). Fitting and fitting it to our data.
Once fitting is done, a .json file will be output in the same folder as the python file that is being executed.
``` python
#prepare the network
#first input is the number of candidates in our optomiser
#second is the layer sizes for the neural network
Genetic = GN(10, [4,2,3]) # where 10 is number of candidates per generation and [4,2,3] are the layer sizes.
Genetic.Fit(x, y, 10) # where x is variables, y is labels and 10 is number of epochs/generations

```
##### Note: The optomiser used by TAiL Is a genetic algorithm. It is not the most efficient method of finding of optomisation but it does get the job done, especially as TAiL is very early stage. Also note that the function being optomised is accuracy. Other loss functions such as Mean Square Error or Log Loss may be added in future.

### Step 2 Deploy the model to TVM

This step is a simple step. On our TVM front end we need to navigate to the "Create New Network" section. This page allows us to navigate to the .json file we created in step 1. Once we have selected a file and clicked submit, a transaction will be created that will deploy a neural network with our values and sizes to the tron virtual machine.

### step 3 Making a prediction

#### using the front end for prediction making
This step is also simple. On our front end we need to navigate to the "Make Prediction" section. This page allows us to set a network number, which is the unique deployed number stored on the TAiL contract. As well as input values, For each input (up to 10 inputs) a value can be added or left blank. Each value corrosponds to an input neuron so order of input should be the same as the order in which the data was trained with. 

We can then navigate the the networks page on the front end, and view all prediction outputs made by the network. This will show us the raw output value, as well as the predicted class. The predicted class being the output node with the largest value.

#### using a smart contract for predictions
This step is a little more complex. Any smartcontract inheriting or using TAiL models needs to be importing the TAiLNN contract as well as pointing the contract to one of the addresses emitted during a creation event. Each TAiLNN Contract has its own unique address, which can be found on its frontend network page, or by executing the smart contracts getNetworkAddress function. The Networks address used by your smart contract can either be hard coded, or passed via parametre, this is entirely up to you as a developer.

### Tech Stack and Dependencies
#### Python
Python3

Numpy

Pandas

Math

Random

#### JavaScript

NodeJS

TronWeb

TronBox

ReactJS

Bootstrap

yarn


### Deploying the smart contract

with /solidity/ as the current directory first compile all contracts by using 

``` 
tronbox compile --compile all
```

followed by deploying to the blockchain via:

``` 
tronbox migrate --reset
```

### Frontend 

this section assumes /react/ is the current directory

#### Development mode

You can launch nofilter in react development mode by running

```
yarn start
```

#### Compiling

the frontend can be compiled using 

```
yarn dev
```

#### Hosting

We can host the compiled files using pm2 and serve (
```
npm install -i -g pm2
npm install -i -g serve
```

and then we can deploy on our server using the following command with the compiled files in the same current directory

```
pm2 serve build
```

this deploys the frontend to port 8080

Commit message:

Updated link to test data and added latest address

README.md, after:

# TAiL (Tron AI Library)

## Latest Deployment Address: THMQQczhShffpyYGU2AiKJ9LzAE3n3sgtq
### Latest Shasta Deployment - TRfMXBToAQAgbnKskpcu25ZkJyDd6cgDRT
#### Previous Mainnet VERSIONS Deployed at TNSNE8FrYhXionoZDNjYTtUWtzc6zt2VSX & TBf9RVryATzFR5FsQv6Rg8JyAiEiGaiHPD

#### Post Tron Accelerator Note

##### On the 10th of January I updated the smart contracts and front end. The Front End should now be able to show predictions of deployed models without issue. 

## What is TAiL
TAiL Is an AI Library and Deployer. The Library is used to train a neural network using python and user defined data. The Deployer is the front end of the dApp responsible for creating the network on the TVM and interacting with it. Iteraction being prediction on new data. The Frontend also allows Historic predictions to be reviewed. The models created with TAiL can be incorporated within other smart contract systems by referencing TAiL as an import, and interacting with the Predict function of the smart contract.

## Why is it needed

TAiL allows a fairly easy way of creating and deploying machine learning models to the TVM. This is something that is normally fairly complex. Machine learning on smart contract platforms is something thats rare, and many few have attempted it thusfar. The Library simplifies the process by allowing you to train a model using python, export it as a json file and them deploy it via a reactjs front end.

## How to use it

### Step 1 Train the model

To get started we need to import our modules (these can be found under the python directory). 

``` python
from FeedForwardNeuralNetwork import FeedForwardNeuralNetwork as FFN
from GeneticOptomiser import GeneticOptomiser as GN
import pandas as pd
import numpy as np
```

we then need to import our data and make it useable, this is a standard data science pipeline example using the Iris dataset which can be found at https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Iris :
``` python
#import test data
data = pd.read_csv("TestData/iris.csv")

#split into features and labels
y = data['label']
x = data.drop(['label'], axis=1)

x = np.asarray(x)

#convert string labels to integers
y = y.astype('category')
y = y.cat.codes
```

Finally we need to fit the TAiL machine learning model. This is done by initialising a model (GN). Fitting and fitting it to our data.
Once fitting is done, a .json file will be output in the same folder as the python file that is being executed.
``` python
#prepare the network
#first input is the number of candidates in our optomiser
#second is the layer sizes for the neural network
Genetic = GN(10, [4,2,3]) # where 10 is number of candidates per generation and [4,2,3] are the layer sizes.
Genetic.Fit(x, y, 10) # where x is variables, y is labels and 10 is number of epochs/generations

```
##### Note: The optomiser used by TAiL Is a genetic algorithm. It is not the most efficient method of finding of optomisation but it does get the job done, especially as TAiL is very early stage. Also note that the function being optomised is accuracy. Other loss functions such as Mean Square Error or Log Loss may be added in future.

### Step 2 Deploy the model to TVM

This step is a simple step. On our TVM front end we need to navigate to the "Create New Network" section. This page allows us to navigate to the .json file we created in step 1. Once we have selected a file and clicked submit, a transaction will be created that will deploy a neural network with our values and sizes to the tron virtual machine.

### step 3 Making a prediction

#### using the front end for prediction making
This step is also simple. On our front end we need to navigate to the "Make Prediction" section. This page allows us to set a network number, which is the unique deployed number stored on the TAiL contract. As well as input values, For each input (up to 10 inputs) a value can be added or left blank. Each value corrosponds to an input neuron so order of input should be the same as the order in which the data was trained with. 

We can then navigate the the networks page on the front end, and view all prediction outputs made by the network. This will show us the raw output value, as well as the predicted class. The predicted class being the output node with the largest value.

#### using a smart contract for predictions
This step is a little more complex. Any smartcontract inheriting or using TAiL models needs to be importing the TAiLNN contract as well as pointing the contract to one of the addresses emitted during a creation event. Each TAiLNN Contract has its own unique address, which can be found on its frontend network page, or by executing the smart contracts getNetworkAddress function. The Networks address used by your smart contract can either be hard coded, or passed via parametre, this is entirely up to you as a developer.

### Tech Stack and Dependencies
#### Python
Python3

Numpy

Pandas

Math

Random

#### JavaScript

NodeJS

TronWeb

TronBox

ReactJS

Bootstrap

yarn


### Deploying the smart contract

with /solidity/ as the current directory first compile all contracts by using 

``` 
tronbox compile --compile all
```

followed by deploying to the blockchain via:

``` 
tronbox migrate --reset
```

### Frontend 

this section assumes /react/ is the current directory

#### Development mode

You can launch nofilter in react development mode by running

```
yarn start
```

#### Compiling

the frontend can be compiled using 

```
yarn dev
```

#### Hosting

We can host the compiled files using pm2 and serve (
```
npm install -i -g pm2
npm install -i -g serve
```

and then we can deploy on our server using the following command with the compiled files in the same current directory

```
pm2 serve build
```

this deploys the frontend to port 8080
